# ISO 27002

ISO 27002 is a standard for data security management. It's a family of security controls for data management.

<hr class="sep-both">

## Section 5 - Information security policies

<div class="row row-cols-md-2"><div>

📝 Ensure principles, policies... were defined to protect information.

👉 It's important to regularly reviews policies to ensure that they are relevant and up-to-date.

**5.1 Information security policies**

* Provide guidance to management on information security. Ensure it aligns with business needs and applicable laws/regulations.
</div><div>

* Develop information security policies, approved by management, and communicated to employees and relevant parties.

**5.1.2 Review of the information security policies**: periodically reviewing the information security policies at planned intervals or when major changes occur to ensure their continued relevance, compliance, and effectiveness.
</div></div>

<hr class="sep-both">

## Section 6 - Organization of information security

<div class="row row-cols-md-2 mt-4"><div>

📝 Ensure a structure was defined to ensure information security.

👉 It's important that everyone is aware of their role and their responsibilities in the organization.

**6.1 Internal organization**: Define a management framework to initiate and control the implementation and operation of information security within the organization.

* Define and assign all roles and responsibilities related to information security.
* Separate conflicting duties and responsibilities to reduce the risk of misuse of organizational assets, accidental or intentional.
</div><div>

* Establish and maintain relationships with relevant legal and judicial authorities and suppliers for business continuity.
* Establish and maintain relationships with relevant interest groups and professional associations.
* Consider information security in project management, regardless of the project type.

**6.2 Mobile devices and teleworking**:

* Develop and adopt policies and appropriate controls to reduce risks associated with mobile devices and teleworking.
* Develop and adopt policies and appropriate controls to protect information accessed, processed, or stored at teleworking sites.
</div></div>

<hr class="sep-both">

## Section 7 - Human resource security

<div class="row row-cols-md-2"><div>

📝 Ensure the organization took appropriate measures to protect information from security risks.

**7.1 Prior to employment**

* Background checks must be carried out for all job candidates in accordance with the laws, regulations, and ethical codes in force. The extent of the background check should be proportionate to the business requirements, the classification of the information that will be accessed, and the perceived risks.
* Employment contracts must specify the person's responsibilities with regard to information security.
</div><div>

**7.2 During employment**

* Managers must require employees and contractors to apply the information security measures as established in the organization's policies and procedures.

* All employees and contractors in the organization must receive the necessary training to understand and apply the relevant information security policies and procedures to their tasks. This training should be regularly updated.
* There must be a disciplinary process in place to sanction individuals who have committed a fault in information security.

**7.3 Termination and change of employment**: The responsibilities regarding information security that are applicable after the end of employment or the transfer to a new role must be defined, communicated to the individuals concerned, and applied.

</div></div>

<hr class="sep-both">

## Section 8 - Asset management

<div class="row row-cols-md-2"><div>

📝  Ensure the organization inventoried and manage every asset.

**8.1 Responsibility for assets**

* An inventory of information assets should be created and kept up-to-date.
* Information assets must be the responsibility of someone in the organization.
* Rules regarding the use of information assets should be identified, documented, and put in place.
* Information assets must be returned to the organization at the end of an employee's or contractor's employment or contract.

**8.2 Information classification**

* Information must be classified based on legal requirements, its value, criticality, and sensitivity.

</div><div>

* Procedures should be developed and implemented to ensure that the information classification is attached and visible.
* Procedures should be developed and implemented to ensure that information assets are handled correctly based on their classification.

**8.3 Media handling**

* Procedures should be developed and implemented to manage removable media in compliance with information classification.
* Media that is no longer required should be disposed of based on its classification.
* Media should be protected against unauthorized access and unwanted modification during transport.
</div></div>

<hr class="sep-both">

## Section 9 - Access control

<div class="row row-cols-md-2"><div>

📝 Ensure the organization defined proper access control.

**9.1 Business requirements of access control**

* A documented and regularly reviewed access control policy must be established to reflect the organization's business and information security needs. 
* Users must be granted access only to authorized networks.

**9.2 User access management**

* A formal process for user registration and de-registration must be implemented to ensure proper access rights management.
* A formal process for granting and revoking access rights must be established for all users and information systems.
    Access to privileged accounts must be restricted and controlled.
* A formal process for the use of secret authentication information must be established.
* Access rights must be periodically reviewed by trustees.
* Access rights must be revoked or adjusted when employees end their employment or mandate or change their roles.
</div><div>

**9.3 User responsibilities**

* Users must be made responsible for protecting their authentication information.
* Users must follow established organization practices for the use of authentication information.

**9.4 System and application access control**

* Access to information and application functions must be restricted in accordance with the access control policy.
* Secure procedures must be implemented to control system and application logins when required.
* An interactive password management system must be implemented to ensure strong passwords.
* Utilities with privileged access must be restricted and controlled.
  Access to application source code must be restricted.
</div></div>

<hr class="sep-both">

## Section 10 - Cryptography

<div class="row row-cols-md-2"><div>

📝 Ensure the organization uses appropriate encryption techniques to protect information.
</div><div>

...
</div></div>

<hr class="sep-both">

## Section 11 - Physical and environmental security

<div class="row row-cols-md-2"><div>

📝 Ensure the organization took measures to protect physical assets.
</div><div>

...
</div></div>

<hr class="sep-both">

## Section 12 - Operations security

<div class="row row-cols-md-2"><div>

📝 Ensure the organization performs its operations such as backups.
</div><div>

...
</div></div>

<hr class="sep-both">

## Section 13 - Communications security

<div class="row row-cols-md-2"><div>

📝 Ensure the organization set up measures to protect communication and communication channels such as networks.
</div><div>

...
</div></div>

<hr class="sep-both">

## Section 14 - System acquisition, development and maintenance

<div class="row row-cols-md-2"><div>

📝 Ensure the organization integrates information security when acquiring, developing, and maintaining systems.
</div><div>

...
</div></div>

<hr class="sep-both">

## Section 15 - Supplier relationships

<div class="row row-cols-md-2"><div>

📝 Ensure the organization took measures to ensure information security is addressed in all stages of the supplier relationship.
</div><div>

...
</div></div>

<hr class="sep-both">

## Section 16 - Information security incident management

<div class="row row-cols-md-2"><div>

📝 Ensure the organization handles incidents in a consistent way.
</div><div>

...
</div></div>

<hr class="sep-both">

## Section 17 - Information security aspects of business continuity management

<div class="row row-cols-md-2"><div>

📝 Ensure the organization integrates information security in every business process.
</div><div>

...
</div></div>

<hr class="sep-both">

## Section 18

<div class="row row-cols-md-2"><div>

📝 Ensure the organization complies with laws and regulations.
</div><div>

...
</div></div>