# Data governance

<div class="row row-cols-md-2"><div>

Data governance starts by considering data as a critical asset of the company. It's a new way of thinking/doing. We define 

* processes
* policies
* roles 
* responsibilities
* practices

to ensure data is efficiently exploited, managed, and protected.
</div><div>

#### The DIKW model

The DIKW model <small>(Data, Information, Knowledge, Wisdom)</small> is a pyramid-shaped model that represent how "data" is transformed to "wisdom". The goal is to show understand how raw data can be transformed in useful information.

Raw data <small>(ex: 1984)</small> is transformed to information by adding a context <small>(ex: Los Angeles summer olympics)</small>. By interpreting the information, it becomes knowledge <small>(ex: it occurs every 4 years)</small>. And trough reflexion, it become wisdom <small>(ex: the next one will be in 2024)</small>.
</div></div>

<hr class="sep-both">

## Security risks and business needs

<div class="row row-cols-md-2"><div>

There are risks when dealing with data

* **Non-compliance with legal requirements** (GDPR, PCII...): the company must ensure that they are able to comply with legal requirement to avoid fines/...
* **Reputation loss**: data breaches usually cause distrust
* **Invasion of privacy**: data not correctly handled that leak
* **Industrial espionage**: someone else gain access to our data
* **Lack of quality**: decrease of efficiency because of duplicates, incorrect or incomplete data, along with a cost to fix it
</div><div>

But data is needed by the company, so we can't "lock it". This is one of the challenges of data governance.

➡️ See "Malcolm W. Harkins", Protect to enable.
</div></div>

<hr class="sep-both">

## Data Management Association (DAMA) framework

<div class="row row-cols-md-2"><div>

The Data Management Association (DAMA) framework is an approach to data governance.

➡️ See DAMA wheel on Google/... Here is a text summary:

1. **Data Modeling and design**: what is the data and why do we need it? What are the regulations/...?
2. **Data Storage & Operations**: where will we store the data?
3. **Data Security**: processes set to prevent unauthorized access, data misuse...
4. **Data integration & Interoperability**: how is the data shared/passed between each service?
</div><div>

5. **Documents & Content Management**: how and where are physical documents stored?
6. **Reference & Master Data**: classification of data in groups according to some criteria <small>(ex: sensitive data...)</small>
7. **Data Warehousing & Business Intelligence**: software/systems to help the higher-ups understand what kind of clients they have/... to manage the company.
8. **Metadata**: describe what kind of data we have
9. **Data Quality**: techniques used to ensure data accuracy, completeness, and consistency.
10. **Data Architecture**: the overall design and structure of the data and information systems within an organization
</div></div>

<hr class="sep-both">

## Data classification and valuation

<div class="row row-cols-md-2"><div>

#### Classification

At the top, the semantic is the most important as it will impact the quality of the element below. Problems at the top will impact a lot the business. The more we go down, the more we have data.

* **Metadata**: describe what kind of data we have
* **Reference data**: data used as a reference for other data, such as a list of countries, ranks for customers <small>(iron, gold, diamond)</small>...
* **Structural data**: External entities <small>(ex: providers, clients...)</small> and the data related to the service/product <small>(ex: delivering address...)</small>
* **Organizational data**: data about the company <small>(ex: employees, sales inventory, departments, hierarchies...)</small>
* **Operational data**: data generated by the activity of the company <small>(ex: orders, invoices...)</small>
* **Audit data**: logs of every change of the data

➡️ We call "Master data" the structural, organizational, and operational data altogether. This is the core and critical data of the company which is considered the single source of truth.
</div><div>

#### Valuation

It's important to associate a value to data in order to find which data require more resources <small>(ex: more advanced measures for VIP...)</small>...

* How much did it cost to acquire this data?
* How much will it cost if we damaged/lost this data?
* What's the impact if this data isn't available?
* The value it adds to business operations/decision-making.
* The revenue generated using this data.
* The cost to protect this data <small>(+in accordance to regulations)</small>
* How much would the competitors pay for this data?
* ...

#### Critical data

It's important for a company to understand what are their critical data, so that they can focus their resources on it. Assessing if a data is critical could be do using 

* a risk assessment process based on its value
* a role-based risk assessment evaluate the risk for each role by each data inside the company

<details class="details-n">
<summary>Role-based risk assessment as table</summary>

**Rows**: we would have a group of rows called "client" in which sub-rows would be the properties such as it's name, address...

**Columns**: we could have column which are services <small>(ex: marketing, sales...)</small>, which are sub-divided into roles within a service <small>(ex: marketing campaign, order management...)</small>.

**Values**: the values are an access level <small>(R=Read, U=Update, or C=Create)</small> and a risk level <small>(1=Not critical to 5=Critical)</small>.

For instance, the ones creating orders in the sales department need a client's address, so we would have C5 in the row "Client > address" and the column "Sales > orders".
</details>
</div></div>

<hr class="sep-both">

## Metadata

<div class="row row-cols-md-2"><div>

At some point, you will have to define metadata. They describe

* the data
* the concept the data represent <small>(ex: a Person, an Address...)</small>.
* the relation between data and concepts
* how the data is used, stored, and retained
* the transformations <small>(ex: derived attributes in SQL)</small>
* the validations/quality checks <small>(ex: constraints in SQL)</small>
* how much is the data important/needed for the company
* who is the owner <small>(usually, it's the company)</small>
* what's the origin of the data
* who can access this data, and what they can do with it

➡️ It must be clear where are Metadata stored and what's inside.

#### Models

Models are used to explain in a standardized way something. According to the target, the model will have more or less details

* conceptual models: high-level concepts
* logical models: relationship between data elements
* physical models: how the data is stored <small>(ex: UML diagrams)</small>
</div><div>

#### Glossary of terms

A glossary of terms is used to describe every term <small>(ex: Client)</small>

* A description of what the term is, descriptive, unambiguous, with hyperlink to other terms <small>(see ISO-11179)</small>
* Add abbreviations, acronyms, synonyms, translations...
* Add any relation between terms
* Add management information <small>(When was this term added? By who? Who approved it? ...)</small>

It's a good practice to use a taxonomy to categorize business terms in a structured way. A taxonomy is usually made of terms which are either Governance terms <small>(added to facilitate the management of the glossary)</small>, and semantic terms <small>(business-related)</small>. A semantic term is usually either about

* Entities <small>(things, activities, actors)</small> within the business domain, and that the business deals with
* Properties <small>(identifiers, attributes, conditions)</small> owned by entities
</div></div>

<hr class="sep-both">

## Data life-cycle

➡️ The life-cycle of the data may change according to what kind of data is handled.

<div class="row row-cols-md-2"><div>

1. **Planning**: what information do we need? For what purpose?
2. **Design and Implementation**: define how and where the data will be structured, stored, along the relationship between data
3. **Creation/Acquisition**: collecting data, importing data...

➡️ At some point, data will be destroyed after this step.
</div><div>

4. **Storage and Maintenance**: store the data in a secure maintainable and accessible place. Backups may be performed at this step too.
5. **Usage**: to provide the service, in decision-making...
6. **Enhancement**: updating, adding new information, refining the data... to make it more relevant to the business needs.
</div></div>